this is a pixel 9 and this is a 9 Pro XL
and this is a pixel 7 nonpr that I've
been running for 2 years I want to see
if it's worth trading this puppy in and
getting a couple hundred off the price
of one of these new ones and to evaluate
whether it's worth it I'm going to do
all the demos that they showed on the
keynote to see if these features are
actually cool cuz it is actually pretty
exciting to think that I could have
Scarlett Johansson her level AI in the
palm of my hand some of the Computing
happening on device and wow these are
some goodl looking phones this is the
winter green this is the porcelain
there's a bunch of other cool colors
notably the pink and as for what's in
the box on the lid side you get a sim
removal
tool papers and under the phones which I
really want to look at but I'm
restraining myself a simple ctoc
charging cable you're not going to get a
charger in the box we're all used to
that now but it should be noted that
this pixel generation uses a 45 WT
charger which is not a lot of Watts lots
of other phones are using 65 or even
like a 100 in some of these crazy cases
however 45 is high for this uh series of
phones which have historically used 30
WS we'll get more into the fast charging
and battery life specs later on in the
video the first thing I noticed about
the industrial design on the back side
is this kind of pill-shaped visor now
mine went all the way across this one
this one's cut and rounded and it's
super sharp this direction it's just
like a 90 it's obviously a a huge camera
bump but it's not that offensive because
it does go across the whole device I
think that is better because it's it's
flat on the table instead of Rocky
that's better than just being half the
phone in terms of the difference between
the two on the exterior you've got these
polished metal rails on the pro as well
as a soft touch matte back which is a
lot less sweaty feeling than the glass
back on the non-pro I don't like glass
backs this thing is going to slip out of
your pocket so fast when you sit down in
the movie theater that's why I recommend
getting a skin if you're not going to do
a full case looking at the visors
another difference between these phones
is the number of cameras they each have
the same main shooter and Ultra wides
however the pro version also has a 5x
telephoto and you can also see a
temperature sensor over here we'll talk
more about the telephoto and other
cameras later flipping them around to
the front wow these look like iPhones
here's an iPhone 15 Pro see how it rocks
super rounded kind of the same
proportions it's just really iphony to
me my last one was much more square and
Samsung they both are OLED screens but
this one is an ltpo screen so instead of
it just being 60 to 100 Hertz variable
refresh rate like the non-pro it can do
down to just a single
HT it's also brighter than the non-pro
and our testing actually did confirm the
claimed brightness spec
another upgrade that's common to both of
these phones is the fingerprint sensor
it is no longer an optical sensor it is
an ultrasonic sensor which is going to
be better for many reasons they're
claiming 50% faster as well as it has an
8 mm x 8 mm sensor which is larger now
so it should be more consistent and it
won't blind you at night time because it
doesn't have to shine a light to read
your fingerprint the fingerprint reader
on this thing sucked to this day it
stinks I've had this thing for over 2
years and I still have to go fail fail
fail
just enter your pattern all the time
let's see how reliable this one
is
wow it just worked that was fast too now
that the phone's unlocked we're going to
try out all of the cool AI features that
look exciting but maybe are just
gimmicks right after this message from
our sponsor dbrand they sent over one of
their grip cases for the pixel 9 Pro XL
and I would be very scared even though I
like running my phone naked
well if you don't count a skin if I was
going to spend the big money on this
thing I would probably get a case like
this especially since it's flattens it
out so the visor is no longer a bump
that honestly is a big Improvement oddly
enough though the case is actually
thicker at the top oh it gets wider at
the top to protect the camera if you
look at it this way you can see the lip
along here widens over here so that if
it falls like this it doesn't fall
directly on the camera the uh
buttons are so tacked off it's got punch
outs for the mics and for the speakers
and the ports imagine you have to take
the case off to charge uh no you don't
have to do that it's a durable and
grippy case thing just Glu to your hand
and see that symbol inside that means
mag safe for the front side they do have
screen protectors on offer as well so
check out short lin.com and yes I can
say that I'm 5 fo9 okay for all my demos
I want to do them on the non-pro because
I figure if they work with this thing
with 12 GB of RAM surely it'll work with
this thing and it's 16 GB of RAM holy
Apple give people Ram I'm really excited
for the new ad me feature so you just
scroll over to it in the camera app and
now I give this to my friend to take a
picture of
me and now we can see the results there
we are I mean your arm is gone what is
that mixed results I guess I wonder if I
could gener to fill that in though
that's another part of this whole
package they had magic eraser before now
they have magic editor Edit Magic editor
button please back up this photo use
magic oh they're always trying to get
you to back up those
jerks all right here we
go reimagine as he's got a long sleeve
shirt on whoa basically looks like
there's a cushion there's like they
added a cushion to your hand which
actually is an improvement it's
nonsensical but at least it's not like a
gaping hole oh actually I just just
going to erase even more of you wa here
we go what I chose to erase the hole and
it filled the hole with something that
looks more like an arm that's actually
the best one yet oh look at this zany
picture of lus let's just edit this
without his permission using AI so I
have this cool reimagine thing where you
can just I don't know select the
background oh it's kind of a whack
background to choose there we go that's
pretty good we'll reimagine that to be
space
full of stars and Nebula look at that
there's lonus in space with like an
ironing board behind his head or
something so much room for creativity
pixel screenshots is an app but now
there's AI features we can turn on
search your screenshots with on device
AI let's do it cuz man it can be hard to
find an old screenshot of like a receipt
or something now I'm going to search for
a screenshot and I'm going to say how
long does it take your passport to be
renewed and there it is I mean not a
really super hard task since it has the
word passport right in the image but
let's see if I can do it based on
another thing like show me a screenshot
that is white couldn't do it black text
on a white
background couldn't do it got some
limitations let's try the next thing in
keep there's now this magic list
function here it's saying help me create
a list create a shopping list for a keto
friendly cheesecake except don't include
cream cheese cuz I already have a bunch
in my fridge here it is keto cheesecake
shopping list no cream cheese I am not
keto currently but I have been in the
past and I've made a lot of cheesecakes
and I can confirm this looks realistic
enough but what about how much I need of
each thing kind of a gap another AI
feature is clear calling so we're going
to see how the person using the pixel
sounds when they are vacuuming so why
don't you take the phone and the vacuum
Jake Bel yes sir and I'll take your
iPhone fine
vacuuming outside just vacuuming the
sidewalk you're vacuuming right now I'm
vacuuming right now I'm going to stop
talking you can see if and hear
it I still can you hear me vacuuming no
not at all I'm vacuuming that is
actually an awesome that's amazing
compare that to this other recording
where it's off I'm talking R's talking
in the vacuum in Google did announce
another feature called call notes that I
wanted to try you would get to it but
during a call by hitting the more button
uh and pressing the button right there
for it but it's not available it might
be because we're in Canada but
unfortunately we can't use it it doesn't
just transcribe your call it actually
gives a summary so for that call it
would have said something like Jake is
vacuuming and describes the quality of
the call to James something like that
this is actually a feature that iOS 18
is going to have as well so those of you
on the beta might be using it already I
would love to show you but I'm thy next
I want to see how sweet the video
quality is when I'm zoomed into to 5x on
the pro model so let's hit a video let's
look at these beautiful gentlemen over
here
boom I'm zoomed in now I did get a toast
that came up and said that frame rate
was reduced when I was super zoomed and
you can definitely see a lot of Jitter
in the viewfinder as I moved around it's
actually super whack and I'm hoping it
doesn't appear in the final video so
let's check all right here it is and the
Jitter is definitely still in the final
video there's another thing I a try
called video boost where you send the
processing of a video off to Google
servers for some time and it makes a lot
of things better including the clarity
of 20x videos so let's zoom into Jake
Bell's
face and processing is finally done and
it's way better it's not perfect but it
is way better also here's a bunch of
photos taken with both phones and in
pixel tradition they look great one of
the the design changes they had this
time around was a large Vapor chamber to
help cool the phone and it turns out
that doesn't make a difference whether
you get a large Pro or just a smaller
non-pro because both these phones
performed almost identically in genjin
Impact getting 46 average FPS and 45
average FPS and even the 1% lows were
within one frame of each other at 40 and
39 not a stunning result would like to
get 60 the game was on a high preset and
the tensor G4 is not really a game
gaming optimized chip so if you're a
huge gamer this might not be the phone
for you as for battery tests we did not
do a battery longevity test but what we
did do is a how long does it take to
charge test we did lots of those it
basically 30 minutes will get you 50%
battery on either of these phones
despite them having different battery
sizes and it takes about an hour and a
half to get 100% note though that that
is with a 30 wat charger and as I said
before these are available with 45 WT
Chargers so expect those times to be
significantly shorter if you do opt to
buy a larger charging adapter or wall
wart now let's talk price and
worth the cheapest one is 800 bucks to
go to the pro it's another 200 bucks at
1,000 to go up in size an additional
$100 for
$1,100 now the thing that makes it
difficult to assess the value of this
phone this phone that is marketed as
being an AI phone is two things number
one I can get the Gemini app on my old
pixel how many of these cool features
that I want this phone because of are
going to be trickling down to my phone
or maybe I can even do now definitely
some of them and the second thing is
that some of these new AI features
you're going to need to have a premium
Gemini AI Google One account which the
Pro Models do come with a year of for
free free I don't know which features
require that that subscription and I
don't know how sticky they'll get by the
time that free trial expires such that
I'm very disappointed and really feel
compelled to keep paying a subscription
I don't want to pay a subscription and
so that just makes it really hard to
assess whether you need to upgrade at
all and if you do do you need to have
the subscription I don't know you guys
just wait till you break your screen I
guess as always but let's say you do
upgrade should you get the pro or the
regular one I mean the decision to get
the larger screen that's just up to you
do you want a big phone 100 bucks but
Pro versus non-pro that's coming down to
more RAM the 5x telephoto slightly
different industrial design brighter
screen if you're out Outdoors a lot
selfie Cam that says more megapixels on
the pro it's tough you guys why don't
you let me know in the comments whether
you think that $200 Delta is worth it in
this case why you're at it why don't you
watch our video on the Samsung s24 I
mean
you'd be remiss if you didn't at least
look at that phone if you're in the
market for one of these right